## Satellite ADC Project Roadmap
This document outlines the roadmap for the Satellite Autonomous Distributed Coordination (ADC) research project. Below is outlined the high level focus, longer term goals, and description of the research and development roadmap for the remainder of 2020.
###### Satellite ADC is a problem of multiple domains
Creating spacecraft that are both autonomous and able to coordinate with each other have several advantages over the monolithic spacecraft paradigm. Numerous, cheaper spacecraft capable of coordination could lower the cost of entry and maintenance in space as well as create more than a single point of failure for a mission. The most important fact about autonomous, distributed systems is that they are scalable. The coordination of the spacecraft ensures that as the number of spacecraft launched increases, so too does the capability of the cluster. The autonomy ensures that computational cost and time-delays do not grow with the cluster as well. The project is interdisciplinary because successful creation of ADC involves software, hardware, physical modelling of the target environment, communications architectures, etc. However, the future of space will involve a paradigm shift from monolithic spacecraft to distributed ones, and from remote controlled spacecraft to autonomous ones, for scalability alone.
###### ADC also has uses in multiple domains
The context of this research is the autonomous distributed coordination of satellites, as spacecraft will benefit the most from more developed autonomy and coordination. Their environment is resource restricted, and the nature of their environment makes human intervention more difficult than in any other environment on Earth. However, autonomy and coordination of distributed systems is useful for far more than just spacecraft. The portion of this research which is focused on developing autonomous architecture and coordination plans is entirely general, and the research will be conducted in such a way as to produce theory and tooling which applies to more than just the spacecraft environment.
#### Prior Work
Theoretical work on proposed designs for the software architecture of autonomous distributed systems has been done in the past, mostly in a university setting.There have also been space missions that have successfully demonstrated some small degree of autonomy or distributed coordination. Satellite constellations have been in existence for decades, however true distributed coordination involves satellite clusters rather than constellations. Satellite clusters would spatially be very close to each other, flying in formation could be a simple form of coordination. There have not been many simulations or implementations of a system which is both autonomous and coordinates. However the cost to entry for implementation is high, a system must be very robust and well tested to actually be put into orbit. There also has not been much of an effort at producing software tools or a general software platform to ease the creation of autonomous and coordinated systems, researchers seem to produce their own code largely from scratch for their proposed autonomous hierarchy or coordination plan testing.
#### Long Term Goals
The ultimate goal for this project is to develop numerous, cheap satellites that are launched in a cluster and are able to autonomously work towards several different goals. This goal requires extensive testing of the autonomous architecture as well as the coordination plan, and these are the least costly things to implement, hence why heavy research into these two things is the most important part of this project.
#### Objectives for 2020
The primary objectives for 2020 were the following. To develop autonomous architectures and several coordination plans for agents in an Earth Orbit environment, to develop testing methods which determine the success of an architecture and plan based on factors such as time taken to achieve goal, accuracy of results compared to goal, resource expenditure,  robustness against external problems, etc. and to simulate agents in Earth Orbit utilizing these architectures and coordination plans and compare their performance across the aforementioned tests. To this end, the first in a set of two experiments was conducted and the results published. The pair of experiments are tests of optimization methods applied to maneuvering in a simulated environment. The focus for the rest of 2020 is to wrap up the second of these experiments.
#### 2021 in Detail
In 2021, the focus of the project will be on continued validation of increasingly general autonomy and coordination schemes. From surveys of prior research, the architectures for autonomy seem to involve a reactive “low-level” component which directly reacts to sensor information and turns a planned action into actuator inputs for the craft, and a reflective “high-level” component which takes the general goal provided by the user as well as sensor information and uses high level reasoning to turn this goal into a planned action. This split architecture sometimes involves just these two layers, sometimes a third to self-evaluate, however the architectures proposed by others typically involve some sort of split between higher level and lower level tasks like this. Similarly, the plans for coordination can be one or some combination of the following: Indirect, Negotiation, or client/server. These appear to be the general possible types of task-allocation or coordination possible between agents. Validation will occur via experiments in increasingly realistic simulated orbital environments as well as with real world systems, like remote controlled boats, rovers, drones.
#### Objectives for Q1 2021
The primary objectives for the first quarter of 2021 are as follows. To explore learning, as opposed to evolutionary methods, or some combination of the two through increasingly complex tasking in increasingly realistic simulated environments, to develop first autonomy and coordination schema and implement them in real world experimentation, and to flesh out concepts for real world experimentation in or close to the target environment. To support these three primary objectives, secondary objectives for the first quarter of 2021 include recruitment of more researchers to the project, as well as to establish rapport with key players in the field.
